Talking about it
You don't give a suicidal person morbid ideas by talking about suicide. The opposite is true — bringing up the subject of suicide and discussing it openly is one of the most helpful things you can do.

Seeking help
Studies of suicide victims have shown that more than half had sought medical help in the six months prior to their deaths.

Mention of suicide
Almost everyone who commits or attempts suicide has given some clue or warning. Do not ignore suicide threats. Statements like "you'll be sorry when I'm dead", "I can't see any way out" — no matter how casually or jokingly said may indicate serious suicidal feelings.

Seeking out lethal means
Suicidal people will often seek out weapons to take some control of their situation. If they are willing to listen to you, you should be able to convince them to give up any weapons they have. If they refuse, consider trying to use your authority on them. Tell them they don't need it.

Preoccupation with death
Suicidal individuals will often become preoccupied with death. This obsession can lead to a downward spiral. Don’t tell them not to think about it, but try getting them interested in other topics. Ask them about what they find interesting and try move the subject to this topic.

No hope for the future
Feelings of helplessness, hopelessness, and being trapped are all signs of depression. Remind them that there are people who care about them, and talk about what you like about them.

Self-loathing, self-hatred
Feelings of worthlessness, guilt, shame, and self-hatred are dangerous both to the at risk individual, and the people around them. They may lash out at people around them if they feel they are unworthy of being helped. Your first reaction should be to console them, but if they are being difficult, it may be better to give them space to calm down. Make sure they don’t have any weapons in them before you leave.

Getting affairs in order
Making out a will. Giving away prized possessions. Making arrangements for family members. These can all be signs that a person is considering suicide. If you notice these signs, read ‘Starting a conversation’.

Saying goodbye
Unusual or unexpected visits or calls to family and friends. Saying goodbye to people as if they won't be seen again. These can all be signs that a person is considering suicide. If you notice these signs, read ‘Starting a conversation’.

Withdrawing from others
Withdrawing from friends and family. Increasing social isolation. Desire to be left alone. Suicidal individuals may attempt to isolate themselves, but this should be considered as a cry for help. It is always a good idea to make regular check-ins on them, but don’t smother them if they need time alone as well.

Health problems
Poor health, including bad diet and lack of sleep can be a contributing factor to suicide. Make sure the person is eating well and getting regular exercise. 

Self-destructive behaviour
Increased alcohol or drug use, reckless driving, unsafe sex. Taking unnecessary risks as if they have a "death wish." These can all be signs that a person is considering suicide. If you notice these signs, read ‘Starting a conversation’.

Sudden sense of calm
A sudden sense of calm and happiness after being extremely depressed can mean that the person has made a decision to commit suicide. If this is true confront them immediately. A call button for the suicide hotline is available on the front page of this app.

The dangers of isolation
Left alone their is a good chance that a suicidal individual will only get worse. Make sure to maintain regular contact with them and ask them if there is anything you can do to help them.

Feeling worthless
There is a chance a suicidal person will think of themselves as a burden to their friends and not worthy of help. If you suspect this is true, try to find them something to do that will make them feel useful.

Medication
Unfortunatly medication such as antidepressants can actually cause instability in the user and may increase the chance of suicidal outbursts. Be very careful when dealing with a medicated individual and consult a doctor.

Consider genetics
It is possible that if their familly have a history of mental illness, then they may be more suceptable to the physical aspects of depression. In this case, take extra precaution to check up on them and remove any potential weapons.