Help them get a regular social outlet
This could be anything from a sports team to a club to a regular hangout session with friends. Regular social contact and the feeling of usefulness is an effective counter to depression.
Have they committed to a regular social outlet?
Self-loathing, self-hatred = -0.1 : Withdrawing from others = 0.3
Self-loathing, self-hatred = 0.1 : Withdrawing from others = 0.3

Get them clean from drugs
Getting clean from drugs is dangerous for a person under extreme pressure. It will help out there mood in the long run, but you will have to very careful to take care of them while they recover.
Have they been clean for at least a week?
Self-destructive behaviour = -0.2 : Seeking out lethal means = -0.1
Self-destructive behaviour = 0.2 : Seeking out lethal means = 0.1

Help the person to get into a regular routine of exercise
Exercise is also extremely important as it releases endorphins, relieves stress, and promotes emotional well-being.
Have they started a regular exercise routine?



Stabilise weight problems
If the person if experiencing any significant loss or gain of weight it is important to address why and get them back to a reasonable diet, or their level of stress will increase. If they are losing weight due to stress, you may have to make food for them to encourage them to eat. If they are gaining weight, you may have to convince them to diet. 
Is their weight remaining stable or returning to normal?



Have them take up a hobby
Any personal achievements will work well to increase the persons sense of self-worth. If they don’t have a hobby, try and find something they can do. You can invite them to do something with you if they would enjoy it. If they do have a hobby, but have abandoned it, convince them to get back into it.
Have they got a hobby to work on?



Help them make a plan for the future
If their life feels directionless, a good plan can help them maintain a positive outlook. Help them see a good possible future.
Do they have a good plan for the future?



Make sure they have something they can do for enjoyment on their own
Without some way to entertain themselves, they are likely to become cynical with their lives. If you know of anything they enjoy, convince them to spend more time with it.
Do they have some way to entertain themselves?



Resolve aggressiveness issues
If something is making them angry, it is important to find out what or they may take out their anger on other people and regret it. Talk to them about what is making them angry and form a plan to deal with it?
Are they still noticeably angry?



Convince them to stop engaging in self-harm
Self-harm is fairly common in recovering suicidal people. It may be difficult to convince them to stop. Try addressing the root cause of their self-harm by asking them why they do it instead of just asking them to stop. They may become frustrated with you if you are too forceful, so be careful.
Have they stopped harming themselves?


